OmarK's topic (Recruiting)

1) What is my company's story - "I want people to feel like they're in the number 1 place."

   Even with a small team, the goal is to get to 30+ people. The goal is to give people an opportunity and 
   people on the team need to understand and feel that.

   - Starts with the AD. On Indeed don't use the customer service style. Use a fundraiser representative ad.

   - The system in place. During interviews be with very very direct. Mention the base pay, face to face fundraising,
     opportunity.

   - The phone call. The expectation, every admin should be doing 100-150 calls per day, booking in 30 people.
     120 applicants on the Ad, this might need multiple admins. Every applicant should be getting 3 calls. 

     * I saw your application, are you still looking for the job...(booking phone call) very direct. It is a sales
       company, but we only work with charities etc.. Spell it out and say exactly what we do - set up a trade booth,
       interact with people. Don't use the word "events" - instead we partner up with business stores and interact
       with the general public. People who come in have a very clear understanding of what we actually do.
     * 1st rounds in Person. 2nd rounds in person. Individual interviews, 1 on 1 for first rounds. 2nd rounds are
       groups.

   - In the emails, there are clear directions as to where the office is. Not just directions, pictures of where to
     go so that they have a visual. 

   - In the interviews there are pastries and coffee; you want to be personable with the people coming in. 

   - How first rounds are done: 1 to 1 or 1 to 2 max.

       1) Introductions - expectations and why we're recruiting, its how we get to know you, how you get to know us.
	     10-15 minutes. 2nd rounds are longer - 45 minutes.

           Why we're recruiting, expansion - goal to get to the office to 60 people so that when we send people out
             the office is still healthy and staffed. (Never worry too much if talking about expansion is too much,
             its good for social proof, but still the potential new start cares more about what's in it for them). 
      
           Be very clear about the hours and the commute (build rapport here).


       2) Body - either build rapport or move on. Depends on how rapport went in introductions.

  	    What are you looking for? Usually 5 things - job stability, opportunity, growth, 

 	    About Us - go over what was said in the phone call, but expand more on it. Direct marketing vs Indirect 
		(Instagram example). Then what we do, partner with groceries stores, pet stores, spots where we 
		can do face to face. Use apple example - biggest tech company, but they still have apple stores
		and still do face to face sales. *note during the interview be personable and relatable - anime,
		sports, cars - have those memorabilia in there. Always be in control of the rapport (can use 
		time 15 minutes to keep control). Keep red flags in mind - not professional, bad mouthing previous
		company, trauma dumping. Can use, "hey we have everything we need, we'll reach out if we decide to
		offer you the position.

	    Pay structure - commission and performance based, plus low base pay. Be very up front - in the original 
		Ad as well as the 1st round. Just raising awareness is not the goal, it is to sign people up. We incentivize 			performance over time. Ask "why do you think you'll be successful here given that it is commission and
		performance based. Can explain 3 different ways of getting paid - hourly, salary, commission, we do 
		fall under commission obviously, being a sales company. Can explain out the average of the company.
		"Topping up" is just explained as a base pay. 

      3) Wrap Up - recap. If you decide to hire someone, offer to bring them back on the spot, if not, tell them 
		you have more interviews to go over and then we'll reach back out to them at the end of the day. Give
		them a paper that gives them something to do that has some of the questions that will be asked - it 
		helps them pre-think about it before they get to the interview - set them up to give you a better 
		interview. Put the time for the 2nd rounds on the paper. If there's a time number, you are bringing them
		back for the 2nd round, if there's no time number, you're not gonna bring them back. Be careful to not
		make it sound like you're giving the job just yet. Admins prep people and are told to dress sharp. 



   - 2nd Round Interviews: Do big groups. Have zero confusion as to what is going on. No events, no need to sell the idea
		any more. Start with people having the final evaluation forms - the last things we look at when we decide
		who gets the job. Go over route to market, then get them to answer the question on the paper. You get
		to see who has the best answers and who wants to volunteer to speak. Get people to talk, but everyone
		gets to answer on paper, the most confident ones speak up. Admins can call at the end of the day! Finish
		the second rounds with expectations. "This is what's gonna happen next...this is what's gonna happen next..."


   - Things to avoid: No customer service ad on indeed (do a sales representative or fundraiser ad). Do not use the word
		events. We have trade booths. Look at it as I love what we do - give that energy and vibe to others. 

