New Leaders Meeting San Diego 2026

Noah Chang - Introductions to the other owners

In the room, new leaders and future owners. 

'G' in our system GRASP - "Getting with the right people"

This meeting is about technical training, leadership training, mindset training. Tying together all of the industry
systems, the processes, and the network in one room.

The hopeful outcome - clarity and confidence. Leadership is learnable, scalable, and teachable.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Performing while training - Tali

Setting the pace while going out and training. It starts with being a leader who understands that its your
responsibility to make shit happen. Some people think training is giving away money because you have to do
sales for other people and potentially make less money. This talk is to kill that mindset, because training
people is an investment. You have to set standards and show the people you are training that you are their
leader and that you will take care of them. As a trainer you want to train people to be the best they can be.
Goal while training - high roll for the week. When someone sees they have the best leader in terms of being
able to do sales, this boosts confidence. Even if you don't high roll, you still have to show what's possible
and land close to your goal - hit double digits.

Have all your things together - KPIs, gear, mental preparation, sense of urgency, personal issues handled. 
It is important to try and show the new start being the first person to score or get an FPC (First Person Closed
sale). You have to show the mindset that rejection is part of the game and un-phases you. Showing the grind and 
right mentality - pushing every day, coming in on weekends, performing consistently at a high level. Don't just
sell, set the pace. 

Know what your objective is while you are training: you want your new start to hit their bonuses. Never be lazy
or inconsistent, because others will copy this. 2/3rds 4/3rds rule. While we are training we have eyes glued to us.
People need to be excited to train. Show somebody the right way to do things. Show that anyone can do what we do.
Show your best when training. "If you're going to be trained by me - you will score, ring the bell, do 3 or more."
Get them smashing their new start bonuses. The pace doesn't slow down because you are training. You can't set a 
pace that you don't live up to. 

Tali runs the New Haven, Connecticut offices, has to hit the field as well as run an office backend. He never
wanted to be an owner chilling in the office, but one of those that still hits the field because he loves the
field - this is inspiring to people in his office. "It doesn't matter what site I'm at, I'm going to make it 
happen." Especially on Draw For Hope, this is light work. Smash double digits every single week and show 
people how to perform. It is important to show others how to have fun while succeeding. This even helps
the right standard for the team. 

Now looking at this, training does make you more money. Because when others are properly trained, you are able
to build your team, get those training manager bonuses, and even get promoted. 

When you train, it forces us to be excellent. Setting the pace in the field while training is not about adding 
pressure, it's showing what's possible while having fun. If you want high performers on your team,  you must 
train well and have the highest standards.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


BriteVox and Industry History - Michael Scully

Britevox started small in the San Diego WeWork. Story in 1991 when Michael started in this industry. Worked
in an airport and was about to go to university. He could not get his summer job back because of mass
layoffs in the UK. He took a job doing 100% commission doing sales for books, toys, and stationary business
to business (B2B). Had a plan of only doing it for 7 weeks. 35 years later it became the "longest summer job"

He relates that in this New Leader's meeting, most people here have only been in this industry for a few weeks
or months. Michael was only 18 when he started doing sales, the guy who was running the sales company he joined
was 35 years old (twice his age). That owner talked big about opening more offices, expanding, and to Michael he
didn't think this applied to him and mentally excluded himself from this concept. What he now knows is, this 
happens all of the time within our industry, and it also has nothing to do with age. Some people tend to push
away that this idea could be them. Michael decided he just wanted to do sales for the time of the summer and he
needed the money. He actually wasn't good to start, but decided to keep figuring things out because he needed the 
money and finding another job just wasn't possible. In his 3rd week, he had a 'Matrix' moment where the sales
started to click. He attributes it to someone helping and training him, but most importantly, 'Showing up'
and being a good student. 

Early on he didn't know how competitive he was until he was watching others in the field. He wasn't a vocal
competitor, but did silently compete with the other sales reps. He learned he hated losing more than he loved
winning. He used to think about what it be like when someone beat him whenever he started losing his attitude -
this helped to fire him up. He also learned to motivate himself when he was out there in the field. In 6 weeks
he learned so much about himself, he started to ask, "what might I be able to do if I focused on this for 
1 year and just take a gap year from university." At that point he had no real plan to run an office, and he 
had no real understanding of what 'opening an office' meant. But over the course of that year, he started
to put together the skills of building a team. 

At 18 and 1 month old, he was only training people older than him...and he didn't initially know how to train
or coach older people. He learned to just show results and be none of the things people associate with
being young - being foolhardy, immature, disorganized, etc. He did learn that for better or worse, we are always
being judged on so many things - the color of your skin, age, economic background, etc. However, when putting
up results, he was no longer being judged on his age, or being young or any of those things. It didn't matter,
all that matter was being to show others results. None of what you've done before matters when you show up. 

He also learned the strongest teams are the most diverse. He recognized the strength of putting together a team,
despite still not fully understanding the industry. Often we can sell the function of the job - fundraising
and doing events marketing. In his time though he has done Events, Door to Door, Business to Business. He sold
so much - commercial products as well as charities. Relating to what we're doing, it's easy for us to think
we're only selling 1 product - charity. But what we are actually doing is teaching people how to actually
sell anything. The product is just the tool we are using to learn how to read people's body language, how
to maintain attitude, how to work different territories, and how to directly speak to people. 

Back in the 1990's with the advent of the internet, some people thought that would be the end of direct face to
face sales, because everything was going online. However, face to face sales thrived, and he even helped to sell
Uber, Netflix, broadband internet and other products in Direct Sales. With what we do we're not only going to do 
events or charity products. 

There are currently 22 offices, soon to be 28, but there could be thousands of offices to do sales in the U.S. Look 
at Malaysia and Singapore where the population is a fraction of the US or even California...they have 750 sales
reps in just one company doing both commercial and charity sales. 

The people you train and take on this journey of expansion, can be with you for the rest of your life. Example
of Papa Jo, Callum, and some of the other owner's giving talks today. In building a team, the goal is finding great
people and creating a quality team. 

Amazon just took online is their 1 millionth robot. Amazon warehouses are now being designed to only have 6 or 7 humans
running an entire building. Changes in technology will impact the entire world. Despite this, several things remain
true: People want an opportunity and financial stability; it is human nature. Despite AI disruption, companies
will always look to make money and grow. If this is the case, we will grow because this is what we do - sell things
to help other companies grow. We succeed if we build a bigger team. 

Whether people understand all of this right away, or only some of it, the fact that people in this organization can learn
to communicate and develop skills for themselves and others, will help the journey wherever it goes.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Setting Up Day 1 Success for New People - Adam Shapiro

5 components and sections of the first day and 2 rules. 

Now when people are new leaders, the more that an individual invests into themselves and providing value to themselves,
the more they can invest in and provide value for others. It is important to keep developing themselves, and then to
take on more responsibility.

1) What Happens in the Office - people are going to see and ask themselves if their experience on day 1 matches up with what
   the owner explained in the interview and orientation day. Leaders should guide people on everything that is 
   supposed to be happening, the chants, where things are, answer any questions they might have about anything, It
   is recommended that carpooling on day 1 is done even if it might be inconvenient for the leader.

2) The Carpool - set expectations for exactly how the day is going to happen. Always prep people mentally for a late 
   day. A late day should not be surprising to the new start. Make sure they understand what is your responsibility,
   and what their responsibility is. Build their confidence as well as their skill. Their responsibility is to fill 
   out the KPIs for everyone that stops and interacts. They can do their best to match your energy to the best of 
   their ability. Eventually everyone keeps track of their own numbers, but day 1 they keep all of them combined. This
   gives them something to do, as well as distract them from all of the rejection that will be happening. Give
   expectations on the type of territory they're going to be in. Slow, Fast, High Dem, Low Dem, and what to expect.
   Prep them for the types of rejection we'll come across - CEO makes too much money, broke, don't believe in charity,
   no time, etc. 

3) The First Hour - they are not meant to be involved. (Differing school of thought from get them involved right away which
   can also be effective but for the purpose of this talk, keep them shadowing the first hour). Make sure that you are also
   very copyable. 


1st Rule - cover the 3 questions everyone ask themselves on day 1: 
	   1) do I like it? To answer this, 33% of my day should be building a relationship 
	   2) Can I make money? 33% of my time should be spent on technical training. Explain the process outloud. 
           3) Is there a future in this? 33% if my day should be future pacing. You don't have to explain the 
					Preman meeting, but future pace their development and growth. 

4) The Heart of the Day - Take turns, and let them pitch every other positive person. You DO NOT need to give 
	them all the easy sales or only pass them all the positive people. You also need to show that you can
        do the positive sale. Not everything needs to be equal sales, they just need to SEE sales. Your goal
        is to highlight all of the things they do well. If someone does something wrong, you don't need to dwell on 
        it, just correct. Also talk to them throughout the day about what they're trying to get out of the industry.

5) The End of the Day - Go over the KPIs and show them that it is just a numbers game. If numbers line up perfect, if they
       don't explain why the day went the way it went based off of the numbers and how the KPIs is a powerful tool
       for analyzing the day and staying logical. They MUST fill out the '3 positives' FIRST, then the '3 work ons' last.


2nd Rule - To get with the right people. Not just for the new person, but also for the leader doing the training. Chat 
       with other more experience leaders, and chat with the owner for advice and feedback. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Teaching Sales in Primetime - Aleks T


Early in career took both directions of being too nice and not wanting to help anyone's feelings, and also being too
rigid and strict - both were ineffective. Being too nice doesn't help people know what they need to work on, too strict
turns people off.


2 ways to go about training in Primetime - 1) Developing Technical skills, and then 2) Developing Mindset.

Focus today on Technical training and the power of really getting it right in the morning primetime training. 

Story about someone practicing the online rebuttal, Aleks rated it at a 30/100 , after primetime, it was 95/100. He betted
the individual that he was gonna sign someone up with an online rebuttal that day, and it did happen. "Otm online rebuttal"

Teach the basics of what we do, but what's important is being able to spot for room for improvements in someone's pitch. 
There's a common situation where someone has a really good pitch but doesn't know why they aren't getting success.

People need to understand the 'Why' of what we're doing vs just the 'How'. Relating this to when first learning the 
card game 'Uno' - why we play certain cards the way we do. You must understand the Why and the rules of how sales work.
Why do we have the 5 steps, why do we have the rebuttals we do, why AIC.

Example - simply ask, "Hey can you tell me why, we do this?" They may give a good answer off the bat, perfect, if not, great
as well, go ahead and explain the answer.

Use Examples and Stories (stories are the oldest human way of teaching, it is hard wired into how we learn). 

Spend as much time is needed get people to understand the why of our systems and concepts. More so than the how. Aleks uses
a story about hearing a couple talking in Swedish at restaurant. He connected, he's Serbian but grew up in Sweden and began
talking them in Swedish. Instant rapport not related to our industry...just a connection.

Teach people the basics - what is the purpose of building rapport?

Once the why is clear, then focus on the how - simply connect the dots for the lesson. Eg. for rapport - Repeat, Respond, Relate.
(Variation of the other 3Rs - relax, repeat, relate) - this is just how its done by connecting the dots. You can do this with
all components of sales - short story, rebuttals, systems, and so on.

Being good at spotting all the little details - lets say someone does 90% of the job well, but 10% is missing. The trainer and
leader should be very very good at spotting that missing 10%. 

The first major issue you find, you have to pause and then work on it. Your job is to make sure the trainee has a great pitch
not to just feel good. Again in training, ask them, "why did you say this?" "why are you saying that?" - get them always
thinking about the why. In the process, give them a lot of credit, for the effort, for the practice, and for them actually
trying. Take them step by step by step in the 5-steps. Focus on 3 main things, not more. More than 3 things becomes too much,
and can actually work to kill the person's confidence. Don't go too crazy on one word either, more the major things to focus on.

Primetime is literally 30-40 minutes, in that time we do the heavy work of fixing the person's pitch. But we also have to instill
confidence for them to hit the field. You don't want "I hope this is gonna work..." rather, "Hey you started off doing this, 
now you're that...do that in the field and focus on talking to enough people, 20-30 people, and I guarantee you're going 
to sign 1-2 people up with that!" Be confident in the lesson you imparted to them, and they'll feel confident in the field.

Story of Alek's figuring out the 'Do Enough' rebuttal - and fixing it, and being ready for the field. He performed well after
that one rebuttal was fixed.  

--------------------------------------------------------

Energy and Culture by Sebastian T


Abraham Lincoln - elected in 1861. Back then people didn't view him the way we do now. He spoke a little weird, did 
not come from an elite family. Even people in his own cabinet did not like him and questioned what he did. Abe Lincoln
was president when the Civil War happened. The country had never been more divided even compared to today. But today
he is remembered as one of the best presidents of all time because of his integrity. He also implemented the 
teams of rivals - a panel of people that had different views and different opinions. Why bring this up? Because
everyone should remember that it is "is better to be respected than to be liked." 

Related to Sarah Kim, she is likeable, but was also pivotal in holding standards and making sure people were doing 
the right thing - she went to crew nights, had fun, but also made sure people were going home at the right time...
not everyone liked this, but it was respected. What people respect people buy into. And what people buy into, 
they follow. What values you hold is important for good culture; you NEED good qualities to have good culture. 
What they buy into, becomes your culture.

What Sebastian respects: 

1) Self discipline - it will take you a lot further than motivation ever will. Marty Supreme
comparison from the movie. Things he was disciplined about - going to bed at 10pm every night. No break until Otm, "Im either
gonna get one or die out there. I will wait as long as it takes." Self discipline will help build culture.

2) Consistent Standards - Mr Consistent in NBA Shai Gilgeous-Alexander. "I am consistent in everything with what I do, what
I eat, when I work out, when I play a game." Professional sports players have consistent standards to be professionals
What should I have standards for: The 8 Steps (be on positive, be on time, be prepared, give 100% effort, work your territory,
safeguard your attitude, know your why, taking control of your life). 

3) Integrity - signing up the right people, doing the right things when no one is watching. Treating people with respect, 
treating everyone fair. Doing right by your team, doing right by the charity clients, and doing right by yourself.

4) Energy - sales is all just a transfer of energy. Energy is everything, without good energy, you will not succeed. 
Positive energy is a choice. Where do we need energy: Crew meetings, Chants, High Rollers, Morning Meetings, and In 
the Field, where it matters the most. 

From the book "How to Be a Great Boss":
"31.5% of your team is engaged, 50% of people are disengaged, 18.5% of people are actively disengaged."

How to get more than 31.5% engaged? Culture - it eats strategy for breakfast.


--------------------------------------------------------------


Building Confidence in FRs by Sarah Kim


It's all about confidence baby. Why is confidence important? Confidence sells. 

Confident FRs will become independent quicker, and why will they do it? Because they want it, will perform better,
and they will stay longer. Confidence comes from proof and evidence. FRs must see results from day 1. They must
see results from themselves and from the leader training them.   


Thoughts lead to Actions which leads to Results which leads to Confidence which leads to Good Thoughts (the loop).
This leads to FRs acting accordingly.

Setting a goal for the FRs - we are going to be 100% scoring today, before lunch. And then we're going to be on bells
by the end of the day. And maybe, hey we can squeeze another one out. And then squeeze another one out. But you never
know it could be a late day. Restate the 3 types of days. "I actually want you to experience a late day." It sounds
counterintuitive, but both frames work.

You must be a good hype man. Deliver your praise with hype. Use different tonalities. Have fun with it. Never sound the 
same all the time. Don't just praise results, and don't be too results driven. You must praise on the process related
things. How they keep an attitude, building rapport, proper pausing, technical and specific areas. Great leaders are
great at analyzing the small things. Even improvements in longer eye contact, improvements in energy, improvements 
in the small things. As a leader you are their mirror. Comparison is human, especially in the beginning, FRs are 
comparing themselves to you. Self thoughts like, "I'm not as charismatic, I can't speak like they do, I don't know 
what they know." In this you must use your own stories or even others stories of growth and the journey to dispel
these thoughts. Pre-empt certain thoughts out loud even before they occur. "I remember when I went out on my first week,
and I was asking these thoughts myself. I also made a ton of mistakes when I was new." Teach them not to compare themselves
to high rollers off the bat, rather their journey into becoming a high roller. Use comparison of those who did not pick
up the skill right away, you can compare to people who did pick it up right away, but share that both individuals are 
high rollers. It doesn't matter, they were once new. 

In the beginning there is quite a bit of hand holding, but don't overdo it. Separate lunches on day 1, not together. 
This gives a new person the opportunity to just take the plunge without you being there. Handling this is key, you
have to pre-empt it and explain it. "You got this. I'll come running out here to help you sign someone up." 

KPIs - make sure people understand the KPIs early on, because that will help them understand the process early on. 
Have them calculate the ratios with a calculator with them. And then ask them to reflect on these numbers and ratios,
what was good, what needs work. 

Confidence early on, leads to momentum. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------


Crew Meetings by Torrence


Story of how as a leader he didn't understand the importance of crew meetings, why they were done, or understand
what they were for. For 6 months, couldn't promote a leader. Implementing them, it became a clean turnaround, within
6 months, had 25 people on his team. 

As a leader, the crew meeting helps influence people on how to mentally think throughout the day, how to succeed in
the day with not just technical skill, but more importantly mindset. It also builds comradery and the feeling of being
part of the team.

Why they matter:

1) Allows you to set the tone for the day. A lot of people can show up tired and unsure, especially in the first week. 
Some people might be distracted with personal things. How do we show up? with energy, with confidence, intensity, and more.
Us running crew meetings allow us to reflect that message. 

2) Creates alignment. When it comes to alignment, it is about focus. Everyone can have different focuses, but the goal
is to push similarity and commonality. You want to avoid fluctuations in personal habits, you want there to be unity
in habits. As a team, we should be pushing each other for the same success and alignment. Hold each other accountable. 
People operate more like a team with alignment.

3) It helps prepare them mentally. Take obstacles off the table - have jackets if its cold, water if its hot, gloves
if needed, canopies, all the tools needed to succeed in the day. Think about sports huddles, Torrance played football.
What if coaches never had huddles, before and during the game. Messaging, give every play 100%, leave no stone unturned.
There are a lot of things that can be talked about before the day in the field even begins.

Why set the tone for the day? If we don't set the tone, bad behaviors crop up. Analogy of a group school project - we all
come together and we all just come together to work, but everyone doesn't work, and its just a lounge sesh, does the work
get done? vs someone sets the tone to get everyone working on the school project, sets the activities, and the goal for 
the day. This allows us to have a similar and unified focus when the proper tone is set. This allows us to have the same 
influence. This creates clarity and focus. It can be stressful when no one knows what to do. 

Another analogy, if you're helping someone move to an apartment/home - what happens if no one gives direction as to where
what goes. If everyone is just standing and sitting around, people start to become impatient and aimless...what's the 
point of even being there. When there's clarity, everyone moves easier and the job gets done. 

Why is preparing mentally important? If people aren't prepared mentally, most times its not someone couldn't do something,
it's that they weren't mentally prepared for it and they didn't even know what to do. If we're not preparing them mentally
then people are just lost in the sauce.

Crew meetings shift people from overthinking to just doing. 

How to have an effective crew meeting: 

1) Be intentional, not random. Don't just say whatever you feel like, you end up rambling. Every crew meeting needs a focus
and people need something to focus on. Have something planned.
2) Keep it simple. It does not have to be long, keep it simple for yourself and the people you're delivering it to. 2-5 minutes.
Simple and punchy. Talk about things you want to prevent, and talk about things they need to hear.
3) Lead with confidence. If you can't be confident in delivering the crew meeting, how can your team be confident? Lead with a
a lot of confidence and belief.
4) End with a chant.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Q and A with New Crew Leaders and Assistant Owners, Plus a New Owner

Anderson (Crew Leader): 

 What drives you to work hard? Especially on the tougher days? 2 things - the expectations he has
 and the social proof. It started with just scoring every day Monday to Friday for 1 week. That built the confidence
 to just keep a 300+ day scoring streak going. He is also addicted to the sign ups, and he NEEDs that sign up. You
 just don't want to be desperate. 2nd - my team needs me. 

 What allows you to do that? Habits. Even during table setup. Always be on it to talk to everyone you see. The habits 
 he has built for himself.


Chase (Crew Leader): 

 Things didn't start off quickest in picking it up? Social proof and the basics. Keep things very
 textbook, it removes the friction or guess work. Keeping it short and simple (KISS). Anyone can follow the basics, and
 if people are successful with the basics, just lean in on them. The social proof of the techniques working for everyone
 means you can do it. Overthinking and procrastinating only hurts you. Every moment happening out there is happening for you,
 how can I seize those moments and make them mine. 

 
Royler (Crew Leader):

 What did you do to put yourself into a successful position? Future pacing, training, and relationships. Being able
 to break down the day for each person and then to find out what people need - mindset, training, or a friend and mentor. 
 Learning to use the winelist and see trends in performance. Figure out exact moments and things that need to be adjusted.


Uncle Dez (Crew Leader): 

 Despite being his age, what makes you think you can do this? Uncle Dez is a father of 3, grandfather of 2. When he came
 to the industry, he looked at the room and saw a lot of young people. But he came from an environment of 20+ years of
 door to door, he was shaped for this. Loves that we do events, and people come to us. Knowing his level of experience,
 he already had the knowledge and belief that he could do this because it was easier. Having door to door challenges,
 helped him overcome the perception of age and not even knowing technology. 2nd thing, he had to look himself in the mirror,
 and told himself it was his job to prove the negatives wrong - it doesn't matter if you're old or young, the color of your
 skin, it is your job to remove the excuses. He has a chance to still live and have a chance to be in the top percent.
 He was at work before his boss for a whole year and 7 months. He was never late. He made sure his presence mattered. 
 He came in like the winner he knew he wanted to be. Was not worried about huge numbers, but more consistency.


Joy (Assistant Owner): 

 What was the culture that Joy created in creating the AO team? Its not just 1 big thing, its all the little things right
 and doing them consistently. You want to build unity and a strong relationship with everyone on the team. Relay all 
 messaging to a core unity. Know who is competitive and compete with them. Little countdowns, rewards. Constantly have
 fun with unity. Crew nights - get to know your team, simply talk to them. At the end of the day, their individual wins
 help you win. Becoming an AO doesn't build the culture, the culture builds the AO. 


Keon (Assistant Owner):
 
 Only 21. Despite being so young, how are you successful? You have to be different than other 21 year olds. Recognize
 the limitless opportunity. Main focus was to seize the opportunity.


Jay (Assistant Owner): 

 Had the ups and downs, how did he persevere? He had a heart to heart with Sammy about him not giving him his all. Despite 
 the experience and knowledge, why not give it your all. It was all mental. He had to change his way of thinking. It was also
 partly because of others in the office, Keon said he would beat him to assistant owner, and he did. The competition
 motivated him. 


Aurelio (Owner): 

 What changed for him since he was known as too aggressive and too much of a dictator? He has a big personality, and loved
 laughing so much, that he was having too much fun instead of getting to business. He was putting too much of his own
 ambitions and goals onto others instead of listening to what people want themselves. Book helped: "How to Win Friends And 
 Influence Others" by Dale Carnegie. Story of simply remembering a bell boy's name - 'Ben'. The importance of remembering
 a name. He was not just another employee, but a person. Stopped putting his needs in front of others, but listened to the 
 needs of others. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------

Being a Right Hand Person - Sammy K

"Roger 10/4 Captain" ROGER = Received Orders Given Expect Results

Always follow the leader in the best way possible. Wasn't always the smartest, might have looked the worst. 

Being a right hand is becoming the 2nd source of direction and certainty to carry the right direction. 

3 types of leaders:  Fast lane (10%)  |  Medium lane (80%)  |  Slow (10%) 

Slow - should not have become leaders, Medium - follow the crowd, Fast - become the right hand person.

Bridging the gaps - a core leader

When excuses start to come in, be the grim reaper, kill those excuses. 

When the boss is watching vs when the boss isn't. The right hand is an extension of the owner. You are the bridge between 
the man at the top and the body of the team. Being a right isn't about being favored, its about being trusted with the end
goal of the business. Sammy created an opportunity by following Papa Jo's lead. 

The office wont get bigger, expand, or be successful if there aren't enough right hand people. They are the proof in leadership
that it is duplicable. The standard is strong enough to live inside more than 1 person. Navy seal training - plank on a beach
facing the ocean, doing situps with the head to the ocean, with the water crashing into your face. Sammy went through this.

I as the business owner does not have to check on the right hands because they're already doing the right things. Right hands
should be beating the owner to the office. Give yourself time to do Primetime, sales impacts, leaders meetings, morning meetings.
Be the person that can be trusted and relied upon. In the leaders meeting, look sharp, take notes, ask questions, be a student
to the game. Help prioritize and organize the things that need to be done. 

Morning meeting, bring the energy every single time. During the day performing. End of the day getting the KPIs done and sent.

You have to be standards driven and hold the line. Live up to the expectations. A right hand person doesn't ride the emotions of
how people are feeling. Stay consistent longer over time.

2 different types of standards you need to have: Personal and Team.

Opened Jan 17, 2022 with 3 people. Everyone left him to be the only person left standing. Standards - was in the office every day at 7 AM, never left till 6:45pm. Worked every Saturday.

Team standards - performance, good customer service, good quality, etc. Don't cosign BS

Be a good field trainer - go out there and perform. Set the standard. Notice when people are doing something wrong, step in.
We know the simple things, but sometimes we just don't do it.

Show people how things are done. Then watch, then correct. Don't just talk about it be about it. Actions speak louder than words. 
Don't wait for momentum, create momentum. Leaders lead by example with their good habits, thoughts, and actions as well as the bad.
Lead with the good.

Be the energy protector. Protect the energy of the office. The owner is not there to be anyone's friend, never care what
people say or think. But the Right Hand does care and nips negative talk in the bud. Have the team first mentality. 

This separates the winners from the losers, who stay put versus who do advance. Don't wait to be trusted, just be trustworthy
and undeniable. They don't talk about leadership, they show up as leadership. They are dependable in the moments that get no
applause. When things look good, anything can be easy. Leadership is an action not a position. Close the gaps.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Closing the Loop - Papa Jo

Story of people who were in his office and organization and these individuals getting to ownership and organizing these
new leaders meetings in LA. Reminiscing about when this organization was literally only 8 people. Went from 8 - 70 people
in 4 years. 70 owners, assistant owners, and crew leaders. 

Closing the loop is guiding people just past the sales part. How far do you want to take someone down on the journey? 

Start within your own head. The 3 brick layers story and the meaning behind it and how it relates to fundraising. 

Papa Jos what he's doing - To be the first choice agency for all face to face solutions. 

The bigger your vision is, the bigger your focus will be. 

The CEO and CFO Conversation - what happens if we train people and they leave and we waste all that time (the CFO)
			       what if we don't train them and then they stay? (the CEO)

The safest way to not develop someone - is to not commit. Conversely, give more, build more, even if someone might leave,
and do it without expecting anything in return. Train like you're gonna train a superstar without expecting them to be a 
superstar. This sounds contradictory, but this mindset lets you train more people, get people behind you, and allow you
take others on a journey. 

Papa Jo went to crew nights a lot and was a fun person, was fun to work with, but was not always very good in the field. But
he did learn from 'friends' that he made that were good at sales. Would get his new starts networking with people who were 
good at sales. 

Closing the loop structure:

	Leaders:

	A New Start -> Get you through your first week -> Get them independent at sales -> Leadership 
	

	For Ownership Training:

	1) Watch me (interviews, morning meetings) -> 2) Lets do together -> Me watching you 


You can train in Width (lots of people) or Depth

"Make your bed and you lie and live in it" - the analogy fits with training people.

Appreciate that there is a learning curve. A skill is not just one of these things and it is not an object. The skill must be earned.
There is a price tag to the skill. You have to start first and upskill yourself as much as possible.

Adam Shapiro is a great student, Papa Jo was also a great student. Did the 52 book challenge in 1 year. 

Lantern analogy:
The more equipped you are the more light you can shine. The more you equip others, the more light all around can shine.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Closing remarks - Noah Chang

3 walk aways: Clarity, Confidence, Responsibility