AUTHORITATIVE TRAINING MATERIAL

This document defines the official rebuttal system taught to all field fundraisers.
When handling objections, this framework takes priority over improvisation.


USE THIS MATERIAL WHEN:
- A prospect raises an objection after the close
- A fundraiser asks how to handle a specific objection
- Generating rebuttal scripts or training explanations



CORE REBUTTALS FRAMEWORK


Rebuttals are our systematic approach to handling objections after the
close. Note that objections or questions that occur while we are in the 
middle of our pitch are not rebuttals and fall under our other system 
(AIC) Answer Impulse Close.

Rebuttals are not arguments and we actually see objections as a good thing.
Getting good at rebuttals will help you sign up more people in the field,
make more money for you and the charity, and even boost your confidence
and skill level. While a standard 5 step pitch is good enough to sign 1-2
donors up in a day, rebuttals will help fundraisers sign up 3+ even 10+!

An important concept to keep in mind, is that as you get good, you do not
want to rebuttal everybody; some people will simply not sign no matter how good
you are. There are 2 questions in our minds whenever we want to rebuttal someone:
1) Am I surprised at their no, and 2) Do I think my rebuttal will work? To answer these 
questions, this leads into the concept of principle vs concern: 

  Principle people - "I never donate to charities" , "I always have to speak to my spouse",
    "I'm out of a job and cant afford this." "I can only do this for a few months."
    ect. These are people who are just not the right individuals to sign up. Fundraisers
    should save their energy and attitude and politely let the person know they can still
    help out on the website or even follow the charity on social media.

  Concern people - "I've never donated this way before", "I usually don't give out my card,"
    "I think I'll need to - do more research, speak to my spouse, think about it" or 
    even asks open ended questions. These are people who just need more clarification, 
    feeling of security, trust, or a nudge; we call these people fence sitters. 

You only want to rebuttal concern people. 
 


REBUTTAL STRUCTURE:

Smile (to disarm defensiveness and remain calm and confident) -> 

Agree (use active listening to ensure they feel heard and understood, even relate) -> 

ReImpulse (add a unique selling point or USP, which is a bit of 
  information or product knowledge that has not yet been used in the 
  pitch. USPs are mostly unique to each charity) -> We use a framework called
  NEW - Nobody, Everybody, Why:
 
    -Nobody is doing this for 20+ years or forever
    -Everyone is doing this for at least 1 year
    -Why (insert USP)

-> Reclose (this is a soft re-ask, and we reaffirm the 1 year of commitment we're looking for: 
  "Can you find it in your heart to squeeze us in for at least 1 year?")


------------------------------------------------------------


CORE USPs (Unique Selling Points)

ChildFund International (CFI)
  -"We don't just help children, we also help their parents get job training so that they 
    can increase their annual income by up to 20% for the rest of their lives." 
  -"One monthly donor doesn't help just 1 sponsored child, they impact 50+ children in their
    community"


CARE
  -"We don't just help children, we also help women, providing them microloans so they can
   get back on their feet and even start their own businesses in their communities."
  -"We aren't only helping children, we also help prevent early childhood marriages and finding
   alternatives for these families to be more financial secure." 


Save the Children (STC)
  -"We are first responders whenever there's a natural disaster or even incidents of devastation
    caused by war. We also stay during these crisis and are one of the last to leave. Ongoing support
    helps us be ready for any of these situations."
 

IFAW (International Fund for Animal Welfare)
  -"With 1 year of support, we're better able to equip our rangers with forensic kits and equipment
   to better track down the poachers, and even help animals on the spot whenever they come in harms way."


The Nature Conservancy (TNC)
  -"We don't just work globally, we also do incredible work right here in our state protecting and 
   maintaining some of our conservations (it helps to learn what TNC projects are local in their area
   to use the name in the rebuttal. Eg, Sacramento River in Sac, Mount Hamilton in San Jose). 1 yr
   of support massively helps in keeping it the way nature intended."

-----------------------------------------------------------------

One Time Rebuttal / Cash Rebuttal ("Can I just do a one time?")

This is our most common rebuttal and getting good at this is essential to having
long term success. Cash donations are a very slight variation. First show the license
and then explain why we can't take cash - 1) not safe because we could get robbed, and
2) you can't track it or know it even got to the charity.


Smile and Agree:

"Thank you so much for even wanting to donate, it means a lot! Just out here,
we're not accepting any one times, can I tell you why?" 


Re-Impulse:

"It's just that one dollar is so much more effective when the charity knows its ongoing.
It helps us plan and budget for how many kids (or animals, trees) we can help, and many resources
we can provide. Plus, (Insert USP)"

Re-Close:

"Like I said, it's just $1 a day, do you think you can find it in your heart to squeeze us
in for at least that first year?"


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Online Rebuttal ("Can I just do this online?")

This is the second most common rebuttal we get in the field. It's easy to learn 
and will also help to increase sales numbers. It is important to know that this
rebuttal is easier to convert if good rapport was built and the potential donor
sincerely likes the fundraiser. 


Smile and Agree: 

"Thank you so much for wanting to even donate in the first place. You can totally
do this on our website (give website) but If you don't mind me asking, do you see yourself donating 
today once you get home or later down the road?"


Re-Impulse:

"So the only major difference between doing this at home versus out here with me 
is that I am a full time fundraiser and I do get a ton of credit for my hard work out here.
If anything I said inspired you to want to help out, I'd love to get you involved right now,
it takes 2 minutes. Do you mind if I show you how it works?"


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Security Rebuttal ("I don't really want to give out my details or information")

This is an important one to know as this rebuttal is also very common. You'll see it everywhere
but even more so when street pitching.


Smile and Agree:

"I totally understand how you feel! A lot of people we talked to today have felt the same way. We
have found though, that people are still getting involved because..."


Re-Impulse:

"...the store manager (use the store managers name) would never let us be out here if we were 
endangering his/her customers, we also have our license on full display (show license), and
if you are an online shopper like amazon? We use a very similar encryption to them so you 
can feel assured that your details will never be shared with anyone."

*If the charity allows for the payment form to be transferred:

"Plus if it makes you feel more comfortable, we just fill out some basic information, the payment form
I can actually transfer to your phone so I never have to see or touch your card."


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do Enough Rebuttal/Donate to Other Charities ("I do enough" or "I already donate to another charity")

This is a common one in higher demographic areas and will be necessary to know when talking
to more wealthy crowds.


Smile and Agree:

"I love that you're already making a difference, I saw the halo and wings. If you don't mind me
asking, 'what charities do you donate to?' (listen and remember them, even say them out loud),
'how long have you donated to them?' (again listen and remember, and say out loud),
'what originally inspired you to get involved with them? (listen and complement)."


Rebuttal:

"Hey we don't want to take anything away from what you're already doing with your amazing
charities, we want you to keep doing them. What I will say is that (NEW): Nobody is doing this for 
10+ years like what you're already doing for your charities, Everyone is sticking around for at 
least 1 year, because what sets us apart is (Insert USP). Do you think you can find it in your 
heart to squeeze us in for at least year on top of what you're already doing?" 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Research Rebuttal ("I need to do some research" or "I want to learn more about this")

This also a common rebuttal in high dem areas, and a fundraiser will want to know
solid product knowledge for this to be effective. Also, good rapport that was built
by the fundraiser will help out immensely with this rebuttal.


Smile and Agree:

"I love that you're interested in more about the charity, we all want to be confident
in the causes we support. Most people who want to do research want to know: how much of their
money actually supports the cause versus administration, some history about the charity,
and if we're vetted and rated on Charity Navigator, which do you want to know?


Rebuttal:

Answer all their questions with product knowledge and then the 3 we listed:

"So around (show donation percentage) (%) goes directly to the cause, only (%) goes
to administrative, fundraising, and marketing. We've been around since (give year), And
we're highly rated on Charity Navigator (show page) - it's amazing tool that looks into
all the major charities and how effective their work is, think of it like the Yelp of the 
Charity world. Knowing this, do you think we can get you involved for at least 1 year?"


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Spouse Rebuttal ("I should to talk to my spouse about this" or "I usually go over charities with my spouse.")

You can see this rebuttal anywhere. As with pretty much all rebuttals, good rapport will
immensely help with converting this. It is important to pay attention to the potential donor
to see if this objection is either a principle ("my wife will kill me if I sign up") or a concern. 
 

Smile and Agree:

"I totally understand! There's a saying, "happy spouse, happy house," I don't want you sleeping on
the couch tonight, just kidding of course. If you don't mind me asking, is this something your
spouse would actually object to?"


Rebuttal:

"So the thing is, (NEW) Nobody is committing to anything long term like 20+ years, Everyone is just 
sticking around with us for at least 1 year, The reason being (Insert USP). Do you think if you went 
home to your spouse tonight and told them we're helping an amazing cause doing (insert cause) for 
at least a year, do you think she would actually mind that you signed up?"


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Corporate Match Rebuttal ("I work for a company that matches my charitable giving") 

You see this alot in larger metropolitan areas, eg. In the bay area, a lot of people work for Apple,
Google, Meta, Nvida, ect. 


Smile and Agree: 

"Thats so awesome that you already give and that your workplace matches your donation. I can tell 
you're the type of person that loves to give in the most impactful way possible. If you don't mind me asking,
who do you work for?" 


Rebuttal:

"So look, I can tell you're a charitable person, what's really cool is we do corporate matching as well! 
We provide you a tax receipt with our EIN that you could take back to your employer and HR department, and
I've known a lot of great corporations to still match your donation. The only major difference is I am
a fulltime fundraiser and I get a ton of credit for my hard work out here. If anything I said inspired you
to want to help out, I'd love to get you involved, it only takes 2 minutes." 