Answer Impulse Close (AIC) Core Objection Handling System


AIC is another objection handling and question handling system we use in our day
to day interactions. It differs from Rebuttals in a major way - Rebuttals are objections
that occur after we close a potential donor; AIC goes into effect when objections 
happen or questions are asked before we are able to get to the close. Essentially
they can happen anywhere in the middle of our pitch.

To navigate this situation, we have 4 things to keep in mind and a couple of rules:


-Problem   
-Solution   (the problem and solution denote value. what their money is going to help with) 
-Dollar Amount (the dollar amount gives clarity on what we're asking for)
-Method (how we do the donation which is online and ongoing)


These must be in the back of our minds when we are interrupted within out pitch. There
is a hard rule - "Direct Questions Deserve Direct Answers" and we never deflect or 
beat around the bush. Whatever question they ask, we confidently answer and hide nothing.

Typically, people will interrupt us as we are building rapport (due to lack of time 
or they simply don't like small talk or they just want to decide then and there) and then
ask either: 


- "how much is it? what's the bottom line? what are you asking for?" 
This denotes that they are asking you to answer with the Dollar Amount. Simply answer honestly,
"it's a $1 a day for as long as you can"

- "how do you help the (kids, animals, nature)?"
This denotes they are asking you to answer with the Solution. Again answer honestly,
"We help these kids with food, water, medicine, most importantly education..." or
"We protect our forests, plant millions of new native trees, clear our oceans..." etc.
Use the proper solution associated with the given charity you are working on.

- "Do I do this online? What am I filling out?"  
This denotes that they are asking you to answer with method. We answer honestly, and we
do actually respond with, "everyone here is filling out a quick two minute charity form, 
simply because we're not allowed to take cash - its not safe and you never know where it goes,
but the reason we're here today...(then go into problem and solution and then the close)

- "What's going on? Why are you here? What are you doing"
This denotes that you simply start the problem but preface it by saying, "We're looking for 
support from the community, primarily because, right now (begin charity short story).


Transition lines between each of these is simple: "the reason we're doing this is because...":

 Eg. "What are you asking for? How much is it?"
      "The reason we're asking for a dollar a day is because right now 15,000 kids die every day
      because they lack basic needs. With that dollar a day we're able to provide these kids
      food, water, medicine, and even an education to break the cycle of poverty! Amazing right?
      So again its a dollar a day, we do it online through a quick 2 minute charity form. Let
      me show you how it works!"

 Eg. "I'm short on time, can you tell me how you help the animals?"
     "Of course, I respect your time. We actually go after illegal poachers, we rescue and
      rehabilitate injured and endangered animals, and we reunite lost pets here in the US
      with their families whenever there's a natural disaster! We do focus on talking about
      elephants because they're about to go extinct...20,000 elephants get killed every year,
      and if we don't do anything, they will go extinct by the year 2050! So what we're asking 
      for is $1 a day for as long as you can, it's all online with a quick 2 minute charity form!"

 Eg. "Hey I appreciate the candor but I have to get back to work in a little bit, what are you doing?"
     In this situation, the field rep can simply and politely say they understand and respect their time,
     give the standard problem, solution, close standard pitch but cut out added fluff.

Important: After covering all checkboxes, the field rep can re-close the potential donor.


Understanding that the 5-Step pitch can be done out of order and remembering its components of
problem, solution, dollar amount, and method will allow a field representative to restructure
any given pitch interaction depending on the flow of the conversation. That is, if a potential
donor asks questions to derail the conversation, the field rep can easily navigate the interaction.

Another very important component to AIC is product knowledge for the charity that the field rep
is on. This will be dependent on the representatives knowledge and they should be training and being
educated on it because it is unique to each charity. When asked a product knowledge question, again, 
the field rep should simply respond with the proper answer or in the event that they dont know, to
say they don't know and can find out (by looking it up on the spot or asking their leader if present). 

The last thing to note is that having strong Rebuttals, and a strong AIC proficiency is what separates 
newer sales and field reps from the veterans and pros. To be good at sales, you will need to get
good with both of these systems.  
