Title: 
Rapport - What It Is and How to Build It


Why:
Knowing what rapport is and how to build good rapport is a powerful skill
that will not only help in sales, but in any communication situation. In a 
nutshell it is when two or more people get to know each other, get comfortable
talking to each other instead of defensive or apprehensive. There is more to it
as you'll see below, but we build rapport with potential donors in order to 
make our personalities likeable; there is a saying that people buy people before
they buy products - which is to say we have to make our personalities a selling 
point during interactions.  



When to Use:
We typically start building rapport during Step 2 in the 5 steps, the Presentation, 
after a potential donor stops at the table. However rapport can actually be built
beginning with intros, throughout the pitch, on the iPad/Tablet, and even after
an interaction. 

In real life rapport can actually be built in any communication dynamic - at parties,
meetings, social settings, hanging out with friends, ect. 



Core Idea:
There are actually 2 technical definitions of rapport: 1) responsiveness between
two or more individuals in a communication setting, and 2) a feeling of commonality
shared between the communicators. 

Both of these concepts are important to keep in mind as interactions occur. If a person
is responding and going along with what a field rep is saying, there is responsiveness
and strong indication of rapport. The converse is also true, if a person isn't paying 
attention to the field rep, then there is little to no rapport between them. The ones
that are responding and listening, are actually good candidates to close and sign up.
While good rapport doesn't guarantee a sign up, it does drastically increase the chances
with a potential donor. 

The second definition, a feeling of commonality, is important and often overlooked. Strong
rapport happens when people involved in a communication setting actually feel like they can 
relate to each other and have something in common. An example might be - "hey you have pets
so do I, we're both animal lovers!" or "Hey you love the outdoors and go hiking, I go hiking 
a lot as well!" or "Hey you dont have kids but you have nieces, I dont have kids either, but 
I have little brothers and sisters that I take care of...so you obviously care about their future."
There are countless examples to use, but these 3 examples are actually real life scenarios
that happens in the field.

Another concept to consider is the relationship triangle - that is there should always be 
a 3 way connection between the: Charity, Potential Donor, and the Fundraiser. There should 
be responsiveness about the Charity, towards the Fundraiser as he/she delivers the 5-Step
pitch, that is relatable to the Potential Donor. Technically rapport can be built on 
any concept (which advanced rapport builders do), but this 3 way connection if kept is 
very easy to stick to and teach to newer field reps. 

Last but not least is the concept of the 3Rs - Relax, Repeat, Relate. This is a powerful
framework for building rapport in any situation. It literally consists of asking a quesion, 
listening to what someone has to say, repeat what they said and then relate to it. 


Script example:
Eg 1:
Fundraiser - Hey do you have a favorite animal?
Potential Donor - Yes I love my cat
Fundraiser - You love your cat, I have 2 cats, was yours a rescue by any chance?
Potential Donor - Yes it was! 
Fundraiser - It was! Awesome, so are mine, you know the saying adopt don't shop? Anyways as
             animal lover and pet owner I think you'll like what we do...(transition to short story)


Eg 2:
Fundraiser - Since we're helping kids, do you have any kids?
Potential Donor - Yeah I have 2 kids! 
Fundraiser - You have 2 kids? Awesome! Are they small, medium, or large?
Potential Donor - Lol you could say Small and Medium. 
Fundraiser - Small and medium, that must be a handful. Me and my girlfriend want kids, any advice?
Potential Donor- Yeah, don't rush it, but when it happens be a good parent!
Fundraiser - I hear you! I don't want to rush it, but my girlfriend is already planning for us to have 2!
             Lol anyways, as a parent I think you'll feel for the cause, the reason Childfund is here...
             transition. 


Eg 3: 
Fundraiser - Since we're helping with mother nature, are you big outdoorsy person?
Potential Donor - Yeah I love to go fishing with my friends!
Fundraiser - Fishing? Awesome my dad loved to fish, do you have any favorite spot?
Potential Donor - Sure, the lake just outside of town!
Fundraiser - The lake outside of town? Yeah me and my friends actually hike around there! 
             Awesome, as a fisherman, I think you'll like what the Nature Conservancy does...


Common Mistakes:
1. Not building rapport, this hurts a Fundraisers chances of building a connection and ultimately
    getting sign ups. Very few people will sign up with a "stranger" that is awkward or to salesy. 

2. Building too much rapport, this can hurt by making the fundraiser too easy to say yes to or 
    potentially wasting someone's time. A fundraiser who is too chatty and forgets to pitch someone
    risks wasting energy and time for themselves.

3. Poor transitions between rapport to the short story. This makes the interaction feel choppy, 
    scripted, and too salesy. Potential donors will notice and see the awkward transitions.

4. Not smiling, not listening. Rapport is intentionally and requires presence. Looking bored, resting
    face, and not listening will actually break rapport. 


Coaching Notes:
Not everyone will be a natural at building rapport (though some extroverts will definitely be good right away).
Rapport however is a skill that can be learned and developed. Thankfully, this job naturally puts people in
dozens of opportunities every day to practice and develop rapport building. One of the biggest things to coach
is genuine curiosity, which leads to natural and meaningful conversations. 