STANDARD CLOSE 

The close should be confident, calm, and assumptive.
Do not over-explain. Do not apologize.
The close happens AFTER agreement, not before it.
Prequalify interest after the solution's silly question. 
Eg. "That sounds amazing right?!" If they agree, perfect
opportunity move onto the close. You should be closing
around half of the people you pitch. You do not want 
to close everyone; this wastes your energy and burns
you out. Closing only the right prospects will protect
your attitude and save your energy for the right people.


CORE CLOSE STRUCTURE:

   We’ve had an amazing response from your community

   Everyone loves that it doesn’t take much to help

   What people are doing is really really really small:

   $1/day (or $3/week for Draw for Hope, .75c/day for ASPCA and Nature Conservancy)

   Most people say they waste more than that a cup of coffee or silly things

   But for these children (or animals, or mother nature)

   It’s a lifesaving second chance

   Now, knowing the huge impact you can make…

   "Im sure I can count on your support!" or "Can we count on your support?" 


--------------------------------------------------

SIMPLE DAY 1 & DAY 2 CLOSE

   What everyone is doing is just $1/day for as long as you can

   It’s all online, can we count on your support?

--------------------------------------------------

KEY RULES AND THINGS TO KNOW:

The close incorporates - excitement, sheep factor, energy, 
lots of body language, strong eye contact, pauses, and head nodding.
Having a mental expectation that they're going to do it based off of
how good your pitch was, their level of responsiveness and energy, 
will help you immensely with closing with confidence.

If people ask mid pitch, "how much is it", "whats the bottom line",
"what are you asking for" or anything similar, this becomes an 
AIC situation (Answer Impulse Close) - our main system for answering
questions and having to do the standard pitch out of order. We always
answer direct questions with direct answers, so no deflection or beating 
around the bush. If any of these questions pop up mid pitch, we simply
answer "Oh thanks for asking, its just a $1 a day for as long as you can."
Let them understand, then move on with the rest of the AIC system, and either
move on with the rest of the pitch to create impulse, or close them on the 
spot if interest is high.    